# Project Proposal : Simple multiplayer 2d shooter game
## Libraries: 
  * Raknet (networking engine for games)
  * Oxygine (2D C++ game engine)
## overview:
	My final project will be a simple multiplayer 2d shooter game which involves two players shooting bullets which bounce off walls at each other and trying to be the first one that lands a hit. The controls will be very standard for a shooting game; the player will be using the WASD keys to move, the mouse to aim and the left mouse button to shoot; similar to first-person shooter games such as Counter-Strike, the WASD keys will not move the player in cardinal directions; they will move the player forward/backward/sideways based on the direction the player is aiming at. There will be no reloading/bullet count; bullets can be fired at any rate up to a minimum interval since there is the risk of bullets bouncing back and hitting the player who fired them. The concept art can be seen in the repository.
## technology:
  The actual gameplay will be completed using the Oxygine library, which is a game engine used for making simple 2D games. The reason I chose not to use the built-in openFrameworks graphics is because of its limitations; firstly, as seen in the Snake application, the pace of the gameplay is dependent on the framerate which can change over time; secondly, it doesn’t have a straightforward way to handle physics-related elements of the game such as angle and velocity. 
	However, the main focus of the project is not on the actual gameplay itself as designing moving characters and firing projectiles isn’t a challenging task, with shots bouncing off walls being arguably a bit harder due to the need of vector calculations. I have made similar games before controls and gameplay-wise in Unity and Flash, so for this project I want to explore some of the more extended aspects of gaming – random level generation and networking.
	Networking will be my main focus; I will be using the Raknet library to allow players to create, find and join lobbies consisting of 1-on-1 games. Out of all networking libraries, I chose this library since it was recommended by the game designer who wrote Guild Wars’ networking feature, allowed cross-platform connections and it was specifically geared towards multiplayer games. The lobbies would be the core feature I wish to implement for this game; this is a (hopefully) realistic feature to implement since the U of I offers virtual server renting at fair prices for students and also since the lobbies are for 2 players only (host and guest) designing a reliable connection won’t be completely out of the question.
	The random level generation in this game will feature an algorithm which generates walls to act as obstacles in the box-shaped level; taking in a parameter which determines “how many” walls the player wants in a map at the setup of a lobby, walls will be randomly generated in the level at an appropriate density according to the parameter. My main objective for the algorithm is to prevent levels where there are no valid paths between the two players from being generated (as in walls splitting the level into two with one player on each side); if I find myself having enough time after optimizing the networking aspect of the game, I might put in further work on the code to prevent closed areas (boxes) from being generated to the map which reduce the size of the playing field.
